# Module 4: Configuring and protecting authentication in hybrid environments
# Lab: Configuring authentication in hybrid environments
  
### Scenario
  You are working as an administrator at Adatum. You want to enhance authentication and self-service features for your users by using Azure AD services. Also, you want to protect internal resources with Multi-Factor Authentication.


### Objectives
  After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Implement user password reset policy.
- Implement Multi-Factor Authentication.
- Implement on-premises Multi-Factor Authentication.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  Estimated time: 75 minutes

Virtual machines: 

-  **10993B** **-LON-DC1**
-  **10993B** **-LON-DS1**
-  **10993B** **-LON-WAP1**
-  **10993B** **-LON-SVR1**
-  **10993B** **-LON-SVR2**
-  **10993B** **-LON-CL1**

User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- When you see references to  **Adatum*yyxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **Adatum*yyxxxx*** with the unique domain name that you chose when you created a custom domain in the lab in Module 1, "Introducing Azure AD."
- Replace all instances of  **_yourdomain_** with your unique domain name that appears on the online lab portal.
- Replace all instances of  **_hostdomain.com_** with the complete domain name of your lab hosting provider.
- When you see references to the account associated with your Azure trial subscription, you should use the account that you created in Tasks 1 and 2 of Exercise 1, "Activating Azure and Office 365 trial subscriptions," of the lab in Module 1, "Introducing Azure AD."

To complete this lab successfully, you must complete all the lab tasks in Module 3, "Using Azure AD as a directory service in hybrid environments."


## Exercise 1: Implementing user password reset policy
  
### Scenario
  You want to enable your users to perform a self-service password reset by using Azure AD and to change their on-premises passwords in Azure AD. You decide to implement the user password reset policy in Azure AD and password writeback in Azure AD Connect. As a result, changed passwords will synchronize with the local AD DS.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Configure password policy and enabling password writeback in Azure AD
2.  Configure self-service password reset
3.  Verify password writeback


#### Task 1: Configure password policy and enabling password writeback in Azure AD

  >  **Note:** These high-level steps duplicate the detailed steps in the Lab Answer Key because it is important that you perform this task correctly.

1.  On  **LON-DS1**, on the desktop, double-click  **Azure AD Connect**. 
2.  On the  **Welcome to Azure AD Connect** page, click **Configure**.
3.  On the  **Additional tasks** page, click **Customize synchronization options**, and then click  **Next**.
4.  On the  **Connect to Azure AD** page, type **SYNC\@_adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com** in the **USERNAME** text box, type _your password_ in the **PASSWORD** text box, and then click **Next**.
5.  On the  **Connect to your directories** page, click **Next**.
6.  On the  **Domain and OU filtering** page, click **Next**.
7.  On the  **Optional features** page, select **Password writeback**, and then click  **Next**.
8.  On the  **Ready to configure** page, click **Configure**.
9.  On the  **Configurationcomplete** page, click **Exit**.
10.  On  **LON-DS1**, open Internet Explorer and go to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
11.  Sign in with the account associated with your Office 365 trial subscription.
12.  In the Azure portal, click  **Azure Active Directory**.
13.  In the left navigation pane, click  **Password reset**.
14.  To enable self-service password reset for all users, in the  **Password reset - Properties** window, click **All**. Click  **Save**.
15.  On the  **Password reset - Properties** page, click **Authentication methods**.
16.  For the methods available to users, ensure that  **Mobile Phone** and **Email** are selected, and then select **Security Questions**.
17.  For the  **number of questions required to register**, select  **3**.
18.  For the  **number of questions required to reset**, select  **3**.
19.  In the  **Select security questions** section, click **No security questions configured**, click  **Predefined**, select three questions of your choice, and then click  **OK** twice.
20.  Click  **Save**.
21.  Click  **Registration**. For the  **Require users to register when signing in** option, click **No**.
22.  In the middle pane, click  **On-premises integration**.
23.  Verify that your on-premises writeback client is running and that  **Yes** is selected for the **Write back passwords to your on-premises directory** option.
24.  Close the Internet Explorer browser window, and then reopen it.


#### Task 2: Configure self-service password reset
  
1.  On the host computer, open Microsoft Edge, and then go to  **https://myapps.microsoft.com**. 
2.  Sign in as  **Abbi\@_yourdomain.hostdomain_.com**.
3.  In the Azure portal, switch to the  **profile** tab.
4.  Click  **Set up self service password reset**.
5.  Configure your mobile phone and email for the alternative authentication method.
6.  Use the Azure portal to change the password for  **Abbi** to **Moc10993B**. 


#### Task 3: Verify password writeback
  
1.  Ensure that you are signed in to  **LON-DS1**.
2.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Delta
  ```

3.  Switch to  **LON-CL1**, and then try to sign in as  **Adatum\\Abbi** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Sign-in will fail.
4.  Try to sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Abbi** with the password **Moc10993B**. You should be able to sign in. This confirms that the password that you changed in the Azure portal is written back to your local AD DS.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured the user password reset policy.


## Exercise 2: Implementing Multi-Factor Authentication
  
### Scenario
  To better protect cloud resources, such as access to Office 365 services, you decide to enforce Multi-Factor Authentication for your users. Although authentication is performed locally for both local and cloud resources, you want another method of confirming users' identities. You decide to use the Microsoft Authenticator app as a method for multi-factor authentication.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Enable Multi-Factor Authentication
2.  Use Multi-Factor Authentication


#### Task 1: Enable Multi-Factor Authentication
  
1.  Sign in to the Azure portal by using your Azure subscription.
2.  Configure the  **Adatum** directory to enable Multi-Factor Authentication for **Abbi Skinner**. 


#### Task 2: Use Multi-Factor Authentication
  
1.  Sign in as  **Abbi\@_yourdomain.hostdomain_.com** to the Office 365 portal at portal.office.com.
2.  When prompted to set up your security information, choose to verify your identity with the **Mobile app**.
3.  Use the Microsoft Authenticator app on your phone to verify your choice.
4.  Sign out, and then sign in again to portal.office.com as  **Abbi\@_yourdomain.hostdomain_.com**.
5.  Note that you will be prompted to verify the attempt when you sign in.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured Azure Multi-Factor Authentication.


## Exercise 3: Implementing on-premises Multi-Factor Authentication Server
  
### Scenario
  To provide an additional layer of security for the users connect remotely to the company network, you have decided to implement multi-factor authentication for VPN connections. Your company currently uses Windows Server 2016 as the VPN server, and users authenticate by using user names and passwords. You want to enhance this by implementing the Multi-Factor Authentication Extension for NPS on-premises and by enforcing mobile app authentication when establishing a VPN connection.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Install NPS
2.  Install and configure the Multi-Factor Authentication Extension for NPS
3.  Test Multi-Factor Authentication in the VPN scenario
4.  Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Install NPS
  
1.  Sign in to  **LON-SVR1** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Add the NPS role.
3.  Configure  **lon-svr2.adatum.com** as a RADIUS client, configure the shared secret as **Pa55w.rd**, and then complete the wizard.


#### Task 2: Configure Multi-Factor Authentication Server for VPN
  
1.  Sign in to  **LON-SVR2**. Open the  **Routing and Remote Access from Server Manager** console.
2.  On  **LON-SVR2**, open the Routing and Remote Access configuration wizard.
3.  Select the remote access (dial-up or VPN) scenario, and then configure just the  **VPN** option.
4.  Configure authentication to work over RADIUS.
5.  Configure  **lon-svr1.adatum.com** as the RADIUS server for the VPN connections, configure the shared secret as **Pa55w.rd**, and then complete the wizard.
6.  Open the  **Properties** dialog box for **LON-SVR2**, and then configure time-out for the RADIUS server as  **60 seconds**.
7.  Switch to  **LON-SVR1** and download and install the Mult-Factor Authentication Extension for NPS.
8.  Using PowerShell, register the NPS server with your Azure tenant.



#### Task 3: Test Multi-Factor Authentication Server in the VPN scenario
  
1.  Switch to  **LON-CL1**. 
2.  To create a new VPN connection to  **LON-SVR2**, type  **SVR2 VPN** in the **Connection name** text box, type **131.107.0.1** in the **Server name or address** text box, select **Point to Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP)** in the **VPN type** drop-down box, and then select **User name and password** for the **Type of sign-in info**.
3.  Open  **VPN connection** properties, and then on the **Security** tab, select the **Allow these protocols** option.
4.  Try to establish a VPN connection to  **LON-SVR2**. Use  **Abbi\@_yourdomain.hostdomain_.com** for the user name and **Moc10993B** as the password.
5.  Your phone will recieve a notification. After confirming your identity on the phone, you should be connected.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module

  - Leave all the virtual machines running.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully implemented Azure Multi-Factor Authentication Server for the virtual private network (VPN) scenario.



## 
  
### Review question(s)
  

**Question** 
When a user resets the password by using the Azure AD profile page, what should you enable to maintain password consistency in Azure AD and ADÃ‚ DS?

**Question** 
You want to enforce multi-factor authentication for your business-critical website. What should you use?



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
