# Lab Answer Key:  Module 4: Configuring and protecting authentication in hybrid environments
# Lab: Configuring authentication in hybrid environments
  
## Exercise 1: Implementing user password reset policy
  
#### Task 1: Configure password policy and enabling password writeback in Azure AD
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, on the desktop, double-click  **Azure AD Connect**. 
2.  On the  **Welcome to Azure AD Connect** page, click **Configure**.
3.  On the  **Additional tasks** page, click **Customize synchronization options**, and then click  **Next**.
4.  On the  **Connect to Azure AD** page, type **SYNC\@_adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com** in the **USERNAME** text box, type _your password_ in the **PASSWORD** text box, and then click **Next**.
5.  On the  **Connect to your directories** page, click **Next**.
6.  On the  **Domain and OU filtering** page, click **Next**.
7.  On the  **Optional features** page, select **Password writeback**, and then click  **Next**.
8.  On the  **Ready to configure** page, click **Configure**.
9.  On the  **Configurationcomplete** page, click **Exit**.
10.  On  **LON-DS1**, open Internet Explorer and go to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
11.  Sign in with the administrator account associated with your Azure trial subscription.
12.  In the Azure portal, click  **Azure Active Directory**.
13.  In the left navigation pane, click  **Password reset**.
14.  To enable self- service password reset for all users, in the  **Password reset - Properties** window, click **All**. Click  **Save**.
15.  On the  **Password reset - Properties** page, click **Authentication methods**.
16.  For the methods available to users, ensure that  **Mobile Phone** and **Email** are selected, and then select **Security Questions**.
17.  For the  **number of questions required to register**, select  **3**.
18.  For the  **number of questions required to reset**, select  **3**.
19.  In the  **Select security questions** section, click **No security questions configured**, then click  **Predefined**, select three questions of your choice, and then click  **OK** twice.
20.  Click  **Save**.
21.  Click  **Registration**. For the  **Require users to register when signing in** option, click **No**.
22.  In the middle pane, click  **On-premises integration**.
23.  Verify that your on-premises writeback client is running and that  **Yes** is selected for the **Write back passwords to your on-premises directory** option.
24.  Sign out of the portal and close the Internet Explorer browser window, and then reopen it. 


#### Task 2: Configure self-service password reset
  
1.  In Internet Explorer, browse to  **https://myapps.microsoft.com**. If you are already signed in, sign out.
2.  Click  **Use another account**.
3.  Type  **Abbi\@_yourdomain_._hostdomain_.com**, and then, when prompted, sign in as  **Abbi\@_yourdomain_. _hostdomain_.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
4.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, in the top right corner, click the **Abbi** account, and then click **Profile**.
5.  Click  **Set up self service password reset**.
6.  On the  **don't lose access to your account** page, for the **Authentication Phone** option, click **Set it up now**.
7.  Choose your country or region, type your mobile phone number, and then click  **text me**.
8.  Type the number that you receive in a text message in the text box below, and then click  **verify**.
9.  For the  **email** option, click **Set it up now**. Type your Microsoft account address that you created in the first lab. Click  **email me**.
10.  Sign in to  **outlook.com** with your Microsoft account credentials, read the code, type it in the verification field, and then click **Verify**. Note: If you don't find a message with a code in your inbox, check the junk folder.
11.  On the  **don't lose access to your account!** page, click **finish**.
12.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, click the **Abbi** account, and then click **Profile**.
13.  In the Azure portal, click  **Change password**.
14.  On the  **change password** page, in the **Old password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, in the  **Create new password** and the **Confirm new password** text boxes, type **Moc10993B**, and then click  **submit**.
15.  Wait until the Microsoft Azure profile portal appears, and then close the Internet Explorer browser window. 


#### Task 3: Verify password writeback
  
1.  Ensure that you are signed in to  **LON-DS1**.
2.  Open a  **Windows Azure Active Directory Module for PowerShell** window from the desktop.
3.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Delta
  ```

4.  Wait for approximately four minutes.
5.  Close Windows PowerShell, and then switch to  **LON-CL1**. Sign out if needed.
6.  Try to sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Abbi** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
7.  Ensure that you get the message that the user name or password is incorrect.
8.  Try to sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Abbi** with the password **Moc10993B**. You should be able to sign in. This confirms that the password you changed in the Azure portal is written back to your local Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS). 

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured the user password reset policy.


## Exercise 2: Implementing Multi-Factor Authentication
  
#### Task 1: Enable Multi-Factor Authentication
  
1.  On the taskbar on  **LON-CL1**, click  **Microsoft Edge**.
2.  In the Microsoft Edge window, in the address box, type  **https://portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter.
3.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, type the credentials for the account associated with your Azure trial subscription.
4.  Click the  **Azure Active Directory** item.
5.  Click  **Users**.
6.  Click  **Multi-Factor Authentication** on the toolbar. If this option does not appear on the toolbar, click **More** and then click **Multi-Factor Authentication.**
7.  On the  **multi-factor authentication** page, click **users**.
8.  In the  **users** list, select the check box for **Abbi Skinner**, and then in the  **quick steps** section, click **Enable**. 
9.  On the  **About enabling multi-factor auth** page, click **enable multi-factor auth**.
10.  On the  **Updates successful** page, click **close**.
11.  Sign out of the portal and close the Microsoft Edge browser window, and then reopen it.


#### Task 2: Use Multi-Factor Authentication
  
1.  On  **LON-CL1**, in the Microsoft Edge browser window, type  **https://portal.office.com**, and then press  **Enter**.
2.  On the  **Office 365 sign in** page, in the **user name** text box, type **Abbi\@_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**. 
3.  On the  **Adatum Corporation** sign-in page, in the **password** text box, type **Moc10993B**, and then click  **Sign in**.
4.  On the  **More information required** page, click **Next**.
5.  On the  **Additional security verification** page, select **Mobile app** in the first drop-down list.
6.  In the  **How do you want to use the mobile app?** section, select **Receive notifications for verification**.
7.  Click  **Set up**.
8.  Open the **Microsoft Authenticator** app on your mobile phone and follow the directions to add this account. (If needed, download **Microsoft Authenticator** from your app store.)
9.  On the **Additional security verification** page, add your number, click **Next**, and then click **Done**.
10.  Sign out of the portal and close the Microsoft Edge browser window, and then reopen it.
11.  In the Microsoft Edge browser window, type  **https://portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.
12.  On the  **Office 365sign in** page, click **Abbi\@_yourdomain.hostdomain_.com**.
13.  On the  **Adatum Corporation** sign-in page, in the **password** text box, type **Moc10993B**, and then click  **Sign in**.
14.  Ensure that you get a notification message on your phone. **Approve** (or **Verify**) the sign in attempt.
15.  Click  **Verify**.
16.  Ensure that you are signed in to Office 365.
17.  Sign out of the portal and close the Microsoft Edge browser window.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured Azure Multi-Factor Authentication.


## Exercise 3: Implementing on-premises Multi-Factor Authentication Extension for NPS
  
#### Task 1: Enable the NPS role on LON-SVR1
  
1.  If required, sign in to  **LON-SVR1** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Open  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Add Roles and Features**. 
3.  If you receive a  **Server Manager** message about collecting inventory data, click **OK**. Wait a minute, and then try this step again.
4.  In the  **Add Roles and Features Wizard**, on the  **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.
5.  On the  **Select installation type** page, click **Role-based or feature-based installation**, and then click  **Next**.
6.  On the  **Select destination server** page, click **Select a server from the server pool**, verify that the **LON-SVR1.Adatum.com** is highlighted, and then click  **Next**.
7.  On the  **Select server roles** page, click **Network Policy and Access Services**, on the **Add features that are required for Network Policy and Access Services** pop-up, verify that **Include management tools** is selected, click **Add Features**, and then click  **Next**.
8.  On the  **Select features** page, click **Next**.
9.  On the  **Network Policy and Access Services** page, click **Next**.
10.  On the  **Confirm installation selections** page, click **Install**.
11.  When installation has succeeded, on the  **Installation progress** page, click **Close**.
12.  In Server Manager, click the **Tools** menu and then click **Network Policy Server**.
13.  In the **Network Policy Server** mmc, right-click **NPS(Local)**, click **Register server in Active Directory** and then click **OK** twice on the **Network Policy Server** pop-up windows.
14.  Click to expand **RADIUS Clients and Servers**.
15.  Right-click on **RADIUS Clients** and then click **New**.
16.  On the **Settings** tab, verify that **Enable this RADIUS client** is selected, type **LON-SVR2** in the **Friendly name** text box, type **172.16.0.14** in the **Address** text box, type **Pa55w.rd** in the **Shared secret** and **Confirm shared secret** text boxes, and then click  **OK** in the New RADIUS Client window.


#### Task 2: Configure Multi-Factor Authentication for VPN
  
1.  Switch to  **LON-SVR2**, open  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Routing and Remote Access**.
2.  In the  **Routing and Remote Access** window, right-click **LON-SVR2 (local)**, and then click  **Configure and Enable Routing and Remote Access**.
3.  On the  **Welcome to the Routing and Remote Access Server Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.
4.  On the  **Configuration** page, select **Remote access (dial-up or VPN)**, and then click  **Next**.
5.  On the  **Remote Access** page, select **VPN**, and then click  **Next**.
6.  On the  **VPN Connection** page, select the network interface with the IP address **131.107.0.1**, and then click  **Next**.
7.  On the  **IP Address Assignment** page, select **Automatically**, and then click  **Next**.
8.  On the  **Managing Multiple Remote Access Server** page, select **Yes, setup this server to work with a RADIUS server**, and then click  **Next**.
9.  On the  **RADIUS Server Selection** page, type **lon-svr1.adatum.com** in the **Primary RADIUS server** text box, type **Pa55w.rd** in the **Shared secret** text box, click **Next**, click  **Finish**, and then click  **OK** in the Routing and Remote access prompt window.
10.  Right-click  **LON-SVR2 (local)**, and then select  **Properties**.
11.  Click the  **Security** tab, ensure that **RADIUS Authentication** is selected as the **Authentication provider**, and then click  **Configure**.
12.  In the  **RADIUS Authentication** window, select **lon-svr1.adatum.com**, and then click  **Edit**.
13.  In the  **Edit RADIUS Server** window, type **60** in the **Time-out (seconds)** text box.
14.  Click  **OK** three times.
15.  Switch back to  **LON-SVR1**.
16.  Open an Internet Explorer browser window, and then go to **https://aka.ms/npsmfa**.
17.  On the **NPS Extension for Azure MFA** download page, click **Download**, select **NpsExtnForAzureMfaInstaller.exe**, click **Next**, and the click **Run**.
18.  Select **I agree to the license terms and conditions** and then click **Install**.
19.  On the **Setup Successful** page, click **Close**.
20.  In the Internet Explorer address box type  **https://portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter.
21.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, type the credentials for the account associated with your Azure trial subscription.
22.  Click the  **Azure Active Directory** item.
23.  In the middle pane under **Settings** click **Properties**. 
24.  Click the copy icon next to the **Directory ID** text box, and then click **Allow access** to copy your Directory ID to the local clicpboard.
25.  Click **Start**, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, click **More**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
26.  At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** command prompt. type the following command, and then hit Enter:

  ```
  cd "C:\Program Files\Microsoft\AzureMfa\Config"
  ```

27.  At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** command prompt. type the following command, and then hit Enter:

  ```
  .\AzureMfaNpsExtnConfigSetup.ps1
  ```

28.  Sign in with the administrator account associated with your Azure trial subscription.
29.  In the the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, at the **Enter new Tenant ID** prompt, hit **Ctrl + V** to paste your **Directory ID** copied earlier, and then hit Enter.
30.  Hit **Enter** when prompted at completion and then close the Windows PowerShell window.



#### Task 3: Test Multi-Factor Authentication Server in the VPN scenario
  
1.  Switch to  **LON-CL1**.
2.  Click  **Start**, click  **Settings**, and then click  **Network &amp; Internet**.
3.  In the  **NETWORK &amp; INTERNET** window, in the left pane, click **VPN**.
4.  Click  **Add a VPN connection**.
5.  In the  **Add a VPN connection** window, select **Windows (built-in)** for VPN provider, type **SVR2 VPN** in the **Connection name** text box, type **131.107.0.1** in the **Server name or address** text box, select **Point to Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP)** in the **VPN type** drop-down box, select **User name and password** for the **Type of sign-in info**, and then click  **Save**.
6.  In the **VPN Settings** window, on the right side under **Related settings**, click **Change adapter options**.
7.  In the  **Network Connections** window, right-click the **SVR2 VPN** connection, and then select **Properties**.
8.  In the  **SVR2 VPN Properties** window, click the **Security** tab.
9.  Click  **Allow these protocols**, and then click  **OK**.
10.  Right-click  **SVR2 VPN**, and then select  **Connect / Disconnect**.
11.  In the  **VPN** window, click **SVR2 VPN**, and then click  **Connect**.
12.  In the  **Sign in** window, in the **User name** text box, type **Abbi\@_yourdomain.hostdomain_.com**, in the  **Password** text box, type **Moc10993B**, and then click  **OK**.
13.  Click **Verify** on the notification on your phone.
14.  Ensure that you are **Connected** to the VPN. If you get a time-out error, repeat steps 11-13.
15.  In the  **VPN** window under **SVR2 VPN** click  **Disconnect**.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  - Leave all the virtual machines running.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully implemented Azure Multi-Factor Authentication Server for the virtual private network (VPN) scenario.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
